In this video, we are going to take a
look at getting MySQL installed on OS X.
Now, if you are not using a Mac system,
please check out one of the other
installation videos. This going to be very
OS X specific video. I am a developer
on OS X by choice. I prefer that for most
of my own personal development. I've been
doing OS X since 2008, I think. Okay,
so the first thing I want to do is go
out and download MySQL. So, if you go out
to www.mysql.com/downloads
you'll see the page for MySQL downloads.
What we want to  do is come all the way down
to the bottom and look for the Community
Edition. So, we'll go ahead and follow
that to downloads. We want the MySQL
community server, which is perfect for us.
We're not going to get into cluster
router or utilities right now. So, let's
go ahead and download that. We can
say this is available as sever download
and I want to select OS X. I'm going to
bring down the dmg archive. We could
see, I've actually already downloaded, so
we didn't have to wait for it to
download. Now, in the other tab here, I
actually have an overview of the
installation options, so there are
installation instructions. I will leave
this link in the course resources for
this video lecture, where you'll be able
to get to this link and for using these
native packages. I'm going to use the
package installer for MySQL, which
is going to set it up. We'll click on
that. We'll go through this. Typically, not
a fan of this type of installer because
it has a lot of clicks to get through it.
But, we'll step through that. The one
thing that we do want to do is set up
the MySQL Server, Preference Plane and
Launchd support. So, these two are kind
of important. They're not mandatory, but
they are going to give you an icon under
system settings to work with it.
Launchd support is going to, if your
system restarts, MySQL will automatically
be restarted on it, so you don't have to
go and start it. So, you can see here,
this is going to go through the summary.
We're going to step through this in just
a moment here.
The other thing that want to point
out here is at the bottom of this MySQL
is installed as an application
within your operating system. So, a lot of
OS X applications are just going to be
under the application directory ,where
you can just go delete them. MySQL is a
little bit different than the typical OS X
applications. It's more like a Unix
application, where it's going to be
installed in under user local and then
number of directories are
going to get created there. So, important to
understand, if you ever have to peek
underneath the covers we're OS X
was got installed. So, I'm going to come
over here and start the installation
process now. It's here. It's going through
verifying it and I should get the
installer popping up. Go ahead and double
click on this. And now, we can see here, do
this. Make this a little clearer for us.
So, in this introduction, I'm going to click on
continue. So, you can see, remember, I
mentioned that it is under the GNU
public license. So, I'm going to click
continue there, and of course, we have to
agree on that. So, in the install notes
that does say, you can change install
location. The install note say that that
does not work, so trying to change your
install location will not do anything
according to install directions. So, we're
going to go ahead and click on that. I'm
going to use my touch ID to authorize it
to go in and install the files to my own
operating system. You can see it
actually goes by fairly quick. It is not
my modern day standards, a very large
program. We can see here that it is
set up a password here. So, I'm going to copy
that and make note of it. So, this is
important message. So, root@localhost,
that is the most powerful password on
MySQL. It does create a temporary
password for it, so when you're going
through it, definitely, make note of that.
But, you can always reset the root
password as well. So, there's a couple
workarounds for it, so don't worry if you
forget it, there's a way to get around
that.
So, I'm going to say okay here, and now, the
installation process is done. You're
going to go ahead and close that.  I am
just going to say move it to trash, because
I am all done with that Installer, and
that closes down. Now, I want to come up
here to system preferences. You can
see now that I have a MySQL icon at the
bottom here. So, in this bottom plane
here. So, go ahead and click on that,
and you can see that MySQL Server
instance is stopped. So, let's go ahead
and start it. I'm going to use my
touch ID again.
We can see that it has started up
normally. Typically, we're going to be
working with it a lot. I will leave this
selected. MySQL server running it in
the background as your system is running it.
It really doesn't take up a lot of
resources. Not a modern hardware.
Especially, you won't even notice
there. But, if you're doing development
against it, kind of nice to have it up and
running, so you don't have to go out and
start it manually. So, kind of a nice to
have, and again, just to remind you that
it was under system preferences. So, I
come to system preferences, and you'll
have a new MySQL down there. Now,
make sure that is running and
automatically start MySQL server on
startup. So, at this point MySQL is
installed and running in the background
machine. Now, in the next section of the
course, what we're going to do is look at
getting connected to MySQL. So, the
primary goal of this whole section of
course is to get MySQL installed and
set up on your local machine, and then we
will start looking at connecting to MySQL
and using MySQL locally on your server.